
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 34115-h.htm or 34115-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/34115/34115-h/34115-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/34115/34115-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive/American Libraries. See
      http://www.archive.org/details/ourbattalionbein00rave





OUR BATTALION

[Illustration]

by

L. RAVEN-HILL.







"Punch" Office
10, Bouverie Street
London
E.C.




OUR BATTALION.

[Illustration]


[Illustration: The Whitefriars Press.]

Bradbury, Agnew & Co., Ltd.,
Printers,
London and Tonbridge.




  [Illustration: 3 a.m.

  _Sentry_: "Sunrises are all bloomin' fine in their way, but I'd rather
  be in bed."]




OUR BATTALION

Being some slight impressions of His Majesty's Auxiliary Forces,
in Camp and Elsewhere.

by

L. RAVEN-HILL.


_"An' you're sent to penny-fights an' Aldershot it."_

RUDYARD KIPLING.







London:
"Punch" Office, 10, Bouverie St., E.C.
1902.

[_All Rights Reserved._]




Contents.


                                                   PAGE
  Recruits                                            9

  On Instructin'                                     14

  The System                                         19

  On the G.O.C.                                      28

  The Seven Ages of the Volunteer                    32

  What Might Happen                                  34

  The Lost Patrol                                    47

  Camp Diaries:

     No. 1. Lt.-Col. Sir Digby Sandilands, M.P.      59

     No. 2. Capt. and Adjt. "Jerry" Benson           66

     No. 3. 2nd Lieutenant Fitzgerald Lawless        78

     No. 4. Pte. Timothy Simmons                     93

  Blank Cartridges                                  102




Illustrations.


                                                   PAGE

  3 a.m.                                _Frontispiece._

  The "Manual"                                       13

  Not to be Trifled with                             17

  Flag-wagging                                       18

  Our First Puttie Parade                         24-25

  Field Training                                     27

  The Firing Exercise                                35

  Our Review                                      40-41

  Army Orders                                        43

  Patrols                                            46

  A Fair Samaritan                                   51

  Our N.C.O.'s (No. 1)                               52

  Our N.C.O.'s (No. 2)                               53

  Hints for Patrols                                  54

  The Best Laid Schemes, etc.                     56-57

  A Conundrum                                        65

  Studies                                            70

  Ambushed                                        72-73

  Field-Day Reflections                              75

  Tactics                                            76

  Field-Day Tragedies                                77

  Philosophies                                       85

  M.G.                                               86

  More Army Reforms                               88-89

  On Guard                                           91

  A Misunderstanding                                 92

  Outposts                                          101

  At Last!                                      104-105

  Off Duty                                          108

  Trouble in the Band                               109




  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]

  Our Battalion.

RECRUITS.


The boy hesitated as he looked down the wet street of the little country
town.

"I've 'arf a mind not to go," he said, "blessed if I ain't----;" then,
after a pause, with hands in pockets and coat collar turned up, he
lounged off, muttering, "I'll see what Bill ses."

Bill was waiting at the corner, looking somewhat sheepishly at the
miscellaneous display in a "general" shop window.

"Goin'?" he said, as the other came up. "Don't think I shall--at any
rate not to-night."

A depressing silence ensued, until a smart lad, with belt and bayonet,
came by whistling and hailed them.

"Wot O! Bill; you ought to be down at the ord'ly room by now, the
sergeant's bin there ever so long. I told 'im I'd bring you two along
to-night. Wot are you scared about?" he continued, eyeing them
critically.

"Ain't scared about nothing; we was only waiting till the rain cleared
off."

"Well, 'urry up, I've got to go to the Arm'ry."

"All right," said the first boy. "Come on, Bill."

The boys stared furtively round the orderly-room, a little box
partitioned off from the disused malt-house that served as drill shed.
On the walls were highly-coloured posters, setting forth the various
advantages of his Majesty's services, while in the corner a jumble of
arms and equipment and a half-opened case of rifles caused them to nudge
each other. A huge Sergeant was writing at a table covered with Army
forms, drill books, and parade registers, amongst which a couple of
cartridges attracted their attention.

"Ball cartridge, mark four," whispered the leading lad carelessly to the
others.

"Ullo, what's this?" said the Sergeant. "Recruits? That's right. Shut
the door be'ind you, an' keep out the cold. I'm glad to see the lads
about here is waking up, an' I wish more 'ud copy their example! Them
cripples in the next village ain't got enough spirit to get up a
dog-fight, let alone learn 'ow to 'andle a rifle; all they're fit for is
funerals. Now let's look at you," he continued, and the deep-set grey
eyes ran swiftly over the lads. "You'll do all right. Now, listen to me;
afore ye signs on, I've got to read over a lot o' reg'lashuns to ye, so
as you'll clearly understand what ye're promisin' to do. Now
reg'lashuns is like Acts of Parlyment, no two persons can agree as to
what they mean, so you won't understand them, probably; but that's not
important, as my experience of the ways o' Gov'mint teaches me that
they'll be altered shortly, so there's no need for ye to worry. But the
_one_ thing ye have to do is, to do as ye're told; attend to that now.
It's the blessid privilege of the volunteer to endeavour to make himself
a soldier in spite of all obstacles, an' what the reg'lar takes months
to learn, an' the militia weeks, 'e 'as to try and do in _days_, so 'tis
no picnic if 'e's goin' to do 'is duty. An' duty don't mean church
parades, an' the annual dinner, an' as little else as you can; duty
means everything you can possibly do, an' it's the pride of a good lad,
that if there's an extry job o' work to be done, e's the lad that'll do
it; for there's none better than a keen Volunteer, an' no one worse than
a slack one, that'll turn up smart when the drinks is free, but is most
unduly anxious about 'is master's business on other occasions, a
nuisince to 'is sergeant, 'is captin', 'is colonel, an' 'is country; an'
if I thought you were that sort I'd send ye to the right-about now, but
I think, by yer looks, ye have the makings o' soldiers. Now, if there's
anything ye want to know, now's the time to ask. What's that? Ye don't
know if ye're up to standard? Fancy a lad 'avin' the face to ask me
that! Why, when I was a boy, with a couple o' corks in me heels, an' a
wisp o' straw under me waistcut, I'd a' passed for a giant. When you've
learnt to throw a chest and hold yer heads up, yer own mothers won't
know yer. Now, after I've read over these 'ere reg'lashuns, ye'll sign
these papers, an' when the doctor's passed you, go an' tell yer best
girls that ye'll 'ave yer futtygraphs took d'rectly yer uniforms is
ready. You will p'rade at seven o'clock, sharp, mind ye, nex' Monday."

  [Illustration: "Tiny"]

       *     *     *     *     *

"Recruitin's a funny business!" muttered the Sergeant; officially
Colour-Sergeant Instructor of E Company 1st Downshire Volunteer Rifles,
a Battalion scattered over half a county, unofficially "Tiny," for the
most obvious reasons. "'Tis a funny business, at least in these parts;
p'raps it's different in London and them 'ere big towns, but if we told
'em all we was supposed to tell 'em, as it's laid down, 'twould frighten
'arf of 'em off the job; while if yer tell 'em in their own way, yer can
get 'em to do anything. They say ye must _lead_ a Volunteer, not _drive_
'im, but 'pon me soul I think a judicious push is what 'e wants
mostly."

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: The "Manual."

  _Instructor:_ "Now the hobject of these 'ere hexercises is to
  haccustom the recruit to 'is rifle so as 'e can 'andle it in a
  light an' heasy manner, same as I do this 'ere cane."]




  [Illustration]

ON INSTRUCTIN'.


"Tiny" was in a shocking temper.

"No one thinks 'igher of the Volunteers than I do," he said to the
Junior Subaltern. "But now an' then they gives me the fair 'ump. Look at
this 'ere las' business. Fust of all they 'olds out as they ought to be
considered part of the country's forces, instead of being shoved out of
the way, so to speak. Quite right. Bimeby along comes a reg'lashun as
they don't like. Wot do they do then? Take it quiet like the harmy
does, an' do the best they can? No, they writes to the papers and gets
up in the 'Ouse and kicks up a row till it's knocked off. A reg'lashun
_hain't_ a reg'lashun when it applies to Volunteers. If that's their
notion o' discipline, no wonder the reg'lars looks down on 'em. What if
it did send their numbers down a bit; the rest 'ud be all the better for
it: some good men would 'ave to go, but you take it from me, Sir, the
best of 'em would manage to stay. If a lad ain't fond enough of it to
give up enough time to make a soldier of 'isself, 'e oughtn't to join,
an' if there ain't enough of 'em who do it, the sooner they're made to
the better; there's plenty as can find time enough for football or
anything o' that sort, but duty don't suit them. 'It's a free country,'
ses they. It is, Sir. It's a good deal too free in more ways than one.

"Not but what you wants tact, Sir, in dealin' with Volunteers. For
instance, you comes down to drill the recruits, an' instead of a crowd
of intelligent lads, all anxious for to learn the rudiments o' squad
drill, you find a lonely and depressed lookin' lad, that would 'ave
recollected an engagement connected with a drink in about two minutes.
Now, what are you to do? You can't call it a drill, and it'll take the
heart out of 'im if you send 'im off. An' mind you, often it's none so
easy in a country Battalion, with one company 'ere an' another there,
an' a detachment in the nex' village, for the best of lads to put his
drills in. There aint no drill 'alls with canteen attachments, and
sergeants' mess, an' readin' rooms, so as a chap can pass a pleasant
evening any time 'e likes; that's doin' it in style, Sir. But what are
you goin' to do? 'Fall in,' ses you, 'an' dress by the right. Stop that
talkin' in the ranks,' ses you. 'I'm glad to see there's _one_ recruit
at least as is fond of 'is duty, tho' 'e'd look better,' ses you, 'if
'e'd 'old 'is 'ead up. Now actin',' ses you, 'as a rear rank, the front
rank not being in their places, and 'aving been numbered off from the
right which you 'aven't, and supposin' the first two men is elsewhere,
what would you do on the command "Form fours?" It's not a guessin'
competition,' ses you. 'Don't know,' ses 'e. 'Well, you'll learn in
time,' ses you. 'We will now proceed to something which is not laid down
in the drill book, an' on which the Reg'lashuns,' ses you, 'is
discreetly silent. Whenever you 'appen to be on sentry go an' the
'armless passer by that 'as been celebratin' 'is birthday won't listen
to yer words o' wisdom, but wants to 'ug you round the neck, don't bring
yer baynit down to the charge, or any foolishness of that sort,
although you've bin expressly told to do it, but gently but firmly drop
the butt on 'is toes, an' you'll experience all the delight o' hurtin' a
fellow creature, without,' ses you, 'any unpleasantness at the inquiry
afterwards. Right turn. Dismiss,' ses you. 'Return the arms to the racks
quietly an' without noise, an' tell the rest of the squad when you see
'em that you know a bit more than they do.'"

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: Not to be trifled with.

  _Sentry:_ "'Alt! who goes there?"

  _Private:_ "Whoy, Jarge! Don't 'ee know I?"

  _Sentry:_ "'Corse I do; but where be goin'?"]




  [Illustration: Flag-wagging.

  _Newly-enlisted Yeoman:_ "Somebody--tell--those--silly--idiots--
  to stop--frightenin'--my--horse!"]




  [Illustration]

THE SYSTEM.


"I don't know whether you've observed it or not, Sir," said "Tiny" to
the Junior Subaltern, "but in this great an' glorious country no one
ever starts on a job without providing 'imself with something to throw
the blame on in case 'e loses the trick. Sometimes they blame procedure
an' sometimes the Constitution; in our case 'tis the System. What that
system is no one even pretends to know. In one respect it's like the
Reg'lashuns; everybody starts off in the same way when discussing of
'em. You never yet met anyone that didn't preface 'is remarks on the
subject with 'As far as I can understand,' an' that's about as far as 'e
_can_.

"The ord'nary man that runs a bank, or a railway, or a hire-purchase
pianner works, would think to 'isself, ''Ere's the old country, bless
'er, an 'ere's the boys to defend 'er. Now, if the brutil an' licentious
foe is dumped down on these 'ere shores, 'e won't go c'lectin' seaweed,
neither will 'e pause for to admire the landscape, but, d'rectly the
pistol's fired, 'e'll get off the mark, an' make a bee line for the
winning post. Now the question is, can these boys stop 'im or can they
not? If they can, they must be got ready for the job, an' if they can't,
we ain't running a Charity Bazaar, and I ain't going to pay anything for
what's worth nothing, so we'll 'ave to think up something else.' But
that haint the way they looks at it, bless yer 'eart. 'Why, you've
forgotten the votes,' ses the Gov'mint. 'What in the name o' goodness
'as that got to do with it?' ses the plain man. 'Poor hinnocent
creature!' ses the Gov'mint, an' turns an' addresses the deputation:--

"'Friends! Fellow citizens! Gallant an' patriotic defenders of our
island 'ome! You are unique in the history of this terrestral sphere.
There is not another country,' ses he, 'as would treat you as you're
treated here. Yer self-sacrificin' spirit is the joy o' me heart, an' if
there's not enough troops to go round I will allow you to line the back
streets when processions is on, but yer "present arms" is a disgrace an'
yer marchin' past makes me cold down the spine. Yer shooting--well, we
will pass that. But for your sense o' duty the curse of conscription
would be weighin' on us, so let me point out the necessity of keeping
your numbers up.'

"But to answer the question of me noble friend, we 'ave not forgotten
the great object for which you exist. In the disastrous an'
unparalleled catastrophe of foreign invasion, which we 'ope will never
come to pass, but which, if it does, we trust will happen when the
Opposition is in power--if, I say, at that momentuous time, you should
be found unequal to the task, our plans is made. If our opponents is in,
we shall demand a General Election an' promptly proceed to throw them
out; but, if by some mistake _we_ should be managing the vessel o' state
at the time, we shall throw the blame on our predecessors for neglecting
to train you properly. So our minds is easy as to the future. 'There's
some guns we don't want in the corner, an' you can wear putties if you
pay for them yourselves,' ses the Gov'mint, 'an' we trust to you to vote
straight at the nex' Election.'

"Then the Volunteer Off'cer, being by nature contrary, wants to know
something about 'is duties an' ses to the Gov'mint, 'Yer remarks is
excellent an' to the point, but what can I do to correct me errors?'
'Anything you like,' ses the Gov'mint, cheerfully, 'that's not agin the
Reg'lashuns.' 'I give up my time,' ses the Volunteer, 'an' pay for
nearly everything out of my own pocket, an' I'm anxious for to learn,
but I ain't a prophet,' ses 'e. 'Give me someone to teach me.' 'I'll do
anything you like in reason,' ses the Gov'mint, 'but I will not train
you.' 'Tell me how to teach myself, then,' ses the Volunteer. 'I don't
know an' I don't care,' ses the Gov'mint, 'but I'll spare the time to
examine you if you pay yer expenses. An' meanwhile I will regard you in
the light of a nuisance.' An' so matters 'ave stood, the Volunteer
trying to do 'is best an' the Gov'mint doin' its level to stop 'im at
it.

  [Illustration: "Very," ses the General.]

"But now, along comes the General. 'Th' Army's not big enough,' 'e ses.
'we must 'ave more men or I won't be responsible for breakages,' 'e ses.
'Serious?' ses the Gov'mint. 'Very,' ses the General. 'What am I to do?'
ses the Gov'mint. 'Conscrip,' ses the General. 'I daren't,' ses the
Gov'mint in a whisper; 'the Opposition 'ud get in at the next election.'
'The country requires it,' ses the General. '_Does_ it?' ses the
Gov'mint. 'It requires _us_ more; it would be as much as my place is
worth to ask every man to do his duty, an' besides, there's me brave and
devoted Volunteers.' 'They'll never be any real good till they have the
M'litia Ballot be'ind 'em,' ses the General. 'They're asking for it
themselves,' ses he. 'Never will I consent to force any one,' ses the
Gov'mint, 'in this Land of Freedom.' 'Something must be done,' ses the
General. 'Ah,' ses the Gov'mint, 'I have it! Crowd them--I mean the
Volunteers--for all you're worth, an' if anything busts, we can throw
the blame on them. Increase the work an' cut down the pay, 'tis a sound
business principle. Now to turn to more important questions. Is the new
cap to have a peak, or is it not? An' who is it to be named after?'"

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: Our First Puttie Parade.]




  [Illustration: Field Training.

  _Captain of Cadet Corps:_ "I've come over to ask you if you
  would mind my cadets running over your land for once, Mr.
  Stubbles. I want to give them a little field work."

  _Stubbles:_ "Wull I dunno as I've got any objection, 's long as they
  don't do no damage; but whatever kind o' dog be they now? I know
  o' 'arriers an' beagles, but I never 'eard tell o' that sort afore."]




  [Illustration]

ON THE G.O.C.


"The Junior Off'cers," said "Tiny" to the youngest Subaltern, "is on the
whole as smart an' efficient a lot of young gents as I'd wish to see,
fond o' their work, eager to learn, an' ready to take suggestions from
their Comp'ny Instructors, but if you listen to them you'd think they
was Generals. They may not know 'ow to c'mmand a comp'ny as they should,
but there never was one of 'em who, after being a week at Aldershot, but
what could have devised an' carried out a course of trainin' that would
have been twice as good an' ten times more suitable to the requiremints
of _their_ Battalion at any rate.

"It's true they don't go into details, but they're sure of the results.
'But,' I ses, 'think of the poor man that's in charge of all these 'ere
Auxiliary Forces, d'you think 'e got the billet for 'is looks?' I ses.
'The General,' ses you, 'can't know the Volunteer like the Volunteer
'isself does.' 'Now, put yerself in his place,' ses I, 'an' let's work
the sum out to four places o' decimals. To commence with,' ses I, 'the
first thing 'e does on being appointed to the job is to go an' 'ave a
chat with the Gov'mint on the subjec'. Ses he, 'I've bin studyin' the
thing.' 'I know ye 'ave,' ses the Gov'mint; 'that's why you've got the
place. We want a man as understan's the machine; it wants over'aulin'
before we goes on tour with it. Not simply washin' out the bearin's an'
replatin' the 'andle bars, but takin' to bits, an' shovin' together
agin. Yer predecessor, poor man, did 'is best, but----, well, _de
mortuis_, you know, _de mortuis_.' A sweet sentimint, Sir, but one
tendin' to untruthfulness. 'So,' ses the Gov'mint, 'you see 'ow the
matter stands. 'Ere is the great mass of patriotic defenders of this
glorious country, ready to be trained into a force that shall be the
envy an' hatred of every Foreign Power. 'Tis a noble an' inspirin'
prospec' that unrolls itself before you, an' one that should stimulate
yer vital energies to their utmost; the 'arder the work to you, the
greater the glory to us. You 'ave a free 'and in the matter.'

"'Well,' ses the General, 'takin' into consideration that, if the
Volunteers is ever wanted, they'll be wanted in a hurry, I should
suggest that they might be advantageously employed in fitting themselves
for the task.' 'Excellent,' ses the Gov'mint; 'why ever wasn't it
thought of before? Go on,' ses he. 'They should be trained,' ses the
General, 'to the use of the most modern weapons, an' practised in the
lessons which we 'ave learned by bitter experience, to the end that, in
the event of an invasion, threatened or actual, every unit shall be able
to take the field without delay, sufficiently organised an' equipped to
carry it through a short campaign.' 'Marvellous!' ses the Gov'mint.
'It's my dream realised. I will be interviewed on the matter to-morrow.'
'Of course,' ses the General, 'this will undoubtedly entail a certain
amount of hextra expense.' 'Not another word!' ses the Gov'mint. 'All
bets is off! Train 'em, give 'em transport, stand 'em on their 'eads, or
teach 'em to sing; anything you like as long as it don't cost anything.
Take a fresh start,' ses 'e.

"So the General sits down with 'is Staff an' 'ammers away at it, an'
cuts down the bills till 'e ain't givin' more than fifteen pence for
'arf-a-crown's worth of stuff, an' by an' by, round comes the Gov'mint.
'I've dropped in to see 'ow we're getting on,' ses 'e. 'Some of the
corps,' ses the General, 'wants training in one way, I find, an' some in
others, so I propose that the Commanding Off'cers of the various
districts should adapt the training to the requirements of the troops
under their command, an' should carry it out wherever we consider it
would be most advantageous.' 'Splendid,' ses the Gov'mint. 'Speak it
into the funnygraph that I may listen to it by nights. We'll do it,' ses
'e, 'at some future date. Just now I want ye to get 'em all together in
one spot where the correspondents of the Daily Press can see an' realize
from their own personal observation what a mighty weapon we are
creatin'. The spectacle of tens of thousands of our brave defenders
practisin' together the evolutions of war will be amazin' to them. Never
again will they dare assert that we are neglectin' the defences of the
country. The next three elections,' ses the Gov'mint, 'ought to be
certs.'

"'But,' ses the G.O.C., 'there won't be space to train quarter of them
properly.' 'Oh, never mind,' ses the Gov'mint, 'give 'em enough room to
turn round, an' stick a sintry on every telegraph pole, an' tell 'em
it's all practice; they won't know any better. Hevins an' earth! I ought
to be playin' Bridge with Lady Betty by now! Tar-tar,' ses 'e; 'be
good.'

"'Well,' ses the G.O.C., goin' to the sideboard an' mixing a couple o'
stiff ones, 'wash it down with that,' 'e ses, givin' one to 'is Staff.
'Well, of all the dam nonsense!' 'e ses, fallin' into a chair. ''Twas
ever thus,' ses the Staff, bein' by nature poetic.

"An' now, Sir," said "Tiny" to the Junior Subaltern, "things bein' like
this, what would _you_ do under the circumstances?"

  [Illustration]




The
Seven Ages
of the
Volunteer.

  [Illustration: (1)]

  [Illustration: (2)]


  At first the raw Recruit, unused to arms
  And awkward at his drill, thinking the "manual"
  The very deuce. Then the bold "Lance,"
  Quick to salute, and glad to have escaped
  His turn as orderly. And then
  The Sergeant, full of wrath because
  His section, squad, or what you will,
  Misunderstand him, and do fail
  To grasp the thing he drives at.
  Then he's a "Sub," and cannot for the world
  Imagine how on earth they ever did without him,
  Don't you know.

  [Illustration: (3)]

  [Illustration: (4)]

  [Illustration: (5)]

  [Illustration: (6)]

  And after that he's Captain, and at first
  Wakes up his company, but as the years go on
  He slackens, and betimes he wonders
  If it is not time to chuck it, as it were.
  A Major then, and now bestrides a "gee,"
  Thanking his lucky stars the "double" does
  No longer make him gasp.
  Lastly, the Colonel, sporting the bold V.D.,
  Wishing to goodness he had not to put
  His hand to pocket to such great extent; but dreading, all the same,
  The time when he must, in the course of things,
  Retire.

  [Illustration: (7)]




  [Illustration]

WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN.


"I would like to get 'old of some of the gentry as writes to the papers
on warlike topics," said "Tiny" to the world at large, "more especially
them that takes the Volunteers under their special care. I would unfold
me mind to them. Now 'ere's one of 'em as 'olds the opinion that
shootin's _everything_, an' 'e quotes the opinion of a furriner who 'as
bin through the war an' ses the first thing a soldier needs is to shoot
well, an' the next thing is to shoot well, an' the last thing is to
shoot well. Now that's all right, but me worthy friend misses the first
point, which is that it refers to a _soldier_, an' not a civilian. So 'e
jumps off from the wrong place to start with. 'Then,' ses 'e, 'teach 'em
to shoot, an' take 'em down to the carefully selected position an' 'ave
the distances marked off, an' the Boers 'ave taught us that under these
circumstances good rifle shots is a match for trained troops.' Now
there's where 'e run's the wrong side of the post. In the fust place
this 'ere country ain't the Transvaal, an' what 'ud be first rate out
there 'ud be all wrong 'ere; an' in the nex' place, _is_ it just by good
shootin' the Boers 'ave done what they 'ave? Don't think I despise
shootin', but drivin' comfortable to the range an' gettin' up to the
firin' line is two different things.

  [Illustration: The Firing Exercise.

  Our own thoughtful Subaltern has carefully studied the new
  firing positions, and has also read that "methods must be
  improvised for utilizing the fire of two or even more ranks,"
  and, by the above arrangement, he hopes to fulfil both conditions.]

"I will ask you one question: 'If the King's prize man can only walk ten
miles, an' 'e 'as to march twenty, how many bullseyes is 'e likely to
make when 'e's fallen out an' lying in the ambulance? For there'll be no
goin' down comfortable to a camp that's bin arranged an' catered for
months before, an' finding yer tent up an' the tea ready. There'll be no
breaking you in soft an' easy, so that at the end of the week too many
of you won't fall out on a twenty-five mile field day. The bloomin' foe
won't study yer convenience, an' you'll get no notice before'and of the
picnic. The Foreign Power that 'as made up its mind for a slap at us
will not advertize that it'll 'old a remnant sale in the metropolis on
the first of nex' month. Our relations will be most friendly with 'im
'till all of a sudden 'e ses, ''Ere goes for London.' There'll be a navy
fight first, an' twill be no ordinary one, for 'e'll lose two ships to
our one, cheerfully, if 'e can clear the Channel for a week.

"We 'ope 'e won't manage it, and we don't think 'e will, but _if_ 'e
does, it'll be no week's camp then. The orders one day, the assembly
nex' mornin' an' the trains waitin'. 'Arf the camp kettles ain't 'ere,
Sir.' 'Can't be helped, you'll have to manage as best you can.' 'No room
for that baggage. Chuck it out, anywhere.' 'All in? Right away!' Heaven
help the man that 'as forgot to stuff his haversack with a ration!
Twenty-four hours they'll be before they have a chance of a meal, an'
then, Heaven help the corps twice over as 'asn't been used to feeding
itself, or that 'asn't give a thought to how to meet an emergency like
this! Quartermaster, Captain, or Corporal, anyone as knows his job at
the camp kitchen, will be worth his weight in gold then, an' that's only
the start.

       *     *     *     *     *

"Tired an' stale, the lads 'll work like niggers at the trenches, but
before they're finished the order will come to get to somewhere without
delay, the enemy not 'aving been kind enough to fall in with our plans.
No trains this time, the lines being blocked. Twenty miles before nex'
mornin', an' all baggage to be left be'ind. The boys will stay in the
ranks till they drop, an' where they drop they will stay. The ambulance?
That's for the fighting line. 'Ave ye ever seen a stiff field day? An'
that's child's play. Lucky the Battalion that can feed its men that
night.

  [Illustration]

       *     *     *     *     *

"'We're in reserve, thank God!' they'll cry, though every mother's son
is only wishful to fight, an' they'll fall asleep by companies till the
section commanders kick 'em to wake up. 'Battalion will advance!'
'Halt!' 'Lie down!' 'Advance!' 'Halt!' 'Lie down!' 'Retire!' 'Halt!'
'You've had an easy day, Colonel. Hold your men in readiness to attack
at nightfall.'

       *     *     *     *     *

"Mile after mile through the mud. 'What are we going to do,
Dick?' 'Spoil their beauty sleep; they've been kept at it two days,
and if we----.' 'Stop that talking in the ranks! Close up there! What's
that?' 'One of their patrols, Sir.' 'Push on, boys, push on! It's come
at last.'

       *     *     *     *     *

"'Men, their picquets are on that hill, ready for us. We are going to
take it, and hold it to the last man. The Battalion will form for
attack.'

       *     *     *     *     *

"You'll want _soldiers_ then, gents; an' you must 'ave 'em ready
before'and."

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: Our Review]




  [Illustration: Army Orders.

  Great care should be exercised in reconnoitring woods.]




  [Illustration: (1) The simple mudcrusher thought it would be rather
  sporting to entrap the mounted scout and laid his plans accordingly.]

  [Illustration: (2) And the scout thought it was only his duty to bag
  the mudcrusher, so, disregarding his enemy's fire, he started to round
  him up.]

  [Illustration: (3) _Scout_: "Halt! You're my----"]

  [Illustration: (4) "---- My prisoner, I think!"]




  [Illustration: Patrols.

  _Scout:_ "There's a pub down there right enough, but there's an officer
  coming up the hill."

  _Corporal:_ "Over the bank, boys; an' take cover behind those ricks!"]




  [Illustration]

THE LOST PATROL.

By the JUNIOR SUBALTERN.


Wonder what we shall do to-day? It seems as if we'd been here for weeks,
although this is only the third day; but I suppose one's first camp
always seems like that. It _is_ different from anything else; the drill
I've done before don't help me a little bit. It's all very well to pass
exams an' get _P.S._ after your name in the Army List, but that don't do
much good out on a field day, as far as I can see.

Here comes my noble Captain. He's a bit of a slacker, I fancy. Wish he'd
buck the men up more in their drill. They were simply awful yesterday,
_I_ thought, but he didn't seem to notice it; in fact, I rather
imagined he didn't approve of my goin' for 'em in the way I did. By
Jove, if I said "Wake up those men," once, I must have said it a hundred
times.

"What's that? I'm attached to X Company to-day, as young Jackson is on
the sick list? What beastly rot! Why, they're the worst company we've
got. Chance for me to wake 'em up? That's all bally fine, but----all
right, I'm off." This is a lively look-out. My goodness, they _are_ a
lot! and their Captain don't seem up to much either----"Yes, Sir. Very
good, Sir. Take No. 1 Section and join the advanced party?"
"But--er--I've never----" "Hurry up, for goodness sake, the Adjutant's
looking as black as thunder." "Oh, _let_ him."

"What _am_ I to do? Straight along till I come to the cross roads, take
the N.E. one, and keep on till I come in touch with the enemy? But----"
"Just ready, Sir. I am only asking for final instruc----" "Oh, No. 1
Section, right turn, quick march." Oh, bother, I've forgotten to slope
the arms. "Slope arms, there!" By gad, that's a pretty poor start. What
_is_ the Adjutant howling about? "That isn't the way to march an
advanced guard. Where are my flankers?" "Just going to send them out,
Sir." "Where's the section commander? On the sick list? Who is in charge
then? Oh, you, Corporal. Have you ever been in an advanced guard before?
No? Why--oh, it's your first camp, is it? Any of the men been used to
this sort of thing? You don't fancy so. Well, we must do the best we
can. Take two men and examine that little wood on the right. I will halt
the section at the corner till you rejoin."

Ullo, what does this cyclist want? "Captain Jones says, will I push on
at once, as I'm stopping the whole column." "Oh! Forward." Hang me if I
see the good of sending out flankers if you can't wait for them to
examine anything. "Step out there, men, we're blocking the column."
Well, here are the cross roads. Oh, my sainted aunt, _Five_, an' not a
blessed sign-post!

"Any of you men know which is the way to Muddiford? No?" I wonder which
_is_ the N.E. road. I thought it was all bally rot getting maps and
compasses, but I wish to goodness I had now. If there was only a gleam
of sunshine it would help, but you can't even guess where the sun is
through these clouds. Oh, damn that cyclist! Oh, the Adjutant's swearing
like old boots? Well, here goes. "Take the turning down the hill, boys,
and push ahead as hard as you can." Thank goodness we seem to have got
clear of 'em now, and by the powers, here's a villager.

"I say, is this right for Muddiford?" Why, we are coming away from it!
What the dickens am I to do? "Is there a short cut from here?" "Yes!
yes! Down that lane, across the common to the wood, straight on till you
get to the path, and that will take us right on to the main road long
before the rest of the column can get there." Cheap at half-a-crown.

[Illustration]

"Fall in there. You shall have a rest when we pick the column up, we're
a bit off the track. Yes, yes, over the fields and straight through the
wood. Get ahead! What the deuce are you men opening out like that for?
You've always been told to spread out when going through a wood? Oh, all
right." If they lose themselves it's their look-out. Where is this
beastly path? At last! Which way do we go? Oh, er--er, curse it, that
fellow didn't tell me. Let's see, we turned to the left and then again,
so I think it must be to the right. Well, it can't be helped--here goes.

I daren't own up to the men that I haven't a notion where we are, but I
haven't, and that's a fact. How this infernal path does wind about!
"What's that, Corporal? Here's a _sort_ of a road? _This_ isn't a main
road. Well, the men must have a rest, so----Where's the rest of the
section? There aren't more than half of them here. Expect they've gone
back the way they came?" I'm beginning to wish _I_ had too.

"Corporal, there's no doubt that we've lost touch with the column. We
must work our way along the road till we come across a house and find
out where we are; unfortunately, I forgot to bring my map with me." _At
last!_ a cottage. The men had better rest while I make a few inquiries.
"Oh, you're a stranger in these parts? But, my good woman, is there any
place where I can find----The Red Lion? Where's that? Just down the
road, where those soldiers are running to?" Well, I'm----!

  [Illustration:]




  [Illustration: A Fair Samaritan.]




  [Illustration: Our N.C.O.'s (No. 1).

  _Captain:_ "Look here, Corporal, you know the great object of the new
  system is to train the N.C.O.'s to act on their own initiative and
  responsibility. Now I want you to take a couple of men--understand? Two
  men, and advance along the main road and select a position commanding a
  good view of the road, where your sentry can see without being
  seen--understand? Now you should choose if possible a place giving some
  shelter for your men, as you are to imagine you've got to occupy it for
  twenty-four hours, and it ought to be so chosen that you could offer a
  certain amount of resistance if attacked--understand? You're in
  absolute command, and you are to do whatever you think best under the
  circumstances, keeping in mind the object for which you were sent
  out--understand?"

  _Corporal:_ "Yessir."]




  [Illustration: Our N.C.O.'s (No. 2).

  The Position the Corporal selected.]




  [Illustration: Hints for Patrols.

  "When reconnoitring a village, one of the inhabitants should be detained
  and questioned."]




  [Illustration: The Best Laid Schemes, etc.

  That able and efficient officer, Captain Smith, had prepared a really
  beautiful ambush that would have put the opposing force out of action
  without a doubt, had not this happened just before the psychological
  moment!]




  [Illustration]

CAMP DIARIES

No. 1.

Lt.-Col. Sir DIGBY SANDILANDS, M.P.


_Saturday._--Wretched morning. Hunter tells me the barometer is falling
again. We really get terribly bad luck with the weather. I know what it
will be--we shall get to camp wet through, and find everything
absolutely sodden. Wish I had sent Hunter on yesterday to look after
things. Lady Sandilands says it's perfectly absurd going on a day like
this; suggests that I should go later when everything is straight. Women
take the most extraordinary views of one's duty to the country, but
really, under the circumstances, I almost wish it were feasible.

Williams has just come up to say that Brown Bess is very lame, shall he
get Sultan ready? It is really most annoying: he positively hates the
band, while old Bess is as steady as a rock.

Sharpe & Sharpe write me about those mortgages. I really ought to see
them. If I caught the express to town I could settle the matter, and
then get to the camp about the time the Battalion should arrive. Major
Strahan would take charge of them; he rather likes doing it, I fancy. If
there's nothing important to see to I think that's what I must do, but
it is extremely annoying after looking forward to the week and making
all arrangements.

The girls very disappointed; say it's not worth while going to see the
Battalion start if I'm not there. Promise them they shall have a wire
letting them know the exact time of our return. They say that's not the
same thing, as we invariably come back smothered in dust and looking
generally disreputable. They seem to regard the whole thing as a mild
form of amusement for them. Have arranged everything with the Adjutant.
Capital fellow. Really relieves me of no end of little worries.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Sunday._--Arrived rather later than I expected last night. Found they
had had rather a bad time getting here, but everything seemed all right;
hope it is; always like the men to start camp in a good temper. We
parade fairly strong, but men not so smart as I should like to see them.
I must impress it on the company officers to look after that sort of
thing rather more carefully.

Church parade not improved by slight drizzle; but the chaplain very
sensibly shortened the service. Quite forgot to provide myself with
anything for the collection; asked the Adjutant if he could lend me
something; he had only half-a-crown and a sovereign; so--well, I suppose
it's for a good cause. Inspected camp this afternoon, seems fairly
comfortable. Our mess president tells me he has had a lot of bother with
the caterers, but he hopes it will be better in a day or two. I
sincerely hope it will.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Monday._--Passed a terribly bad night. Camp may be a pleasant change
for younger men, but it really is a great trial in many ways for
commanding officers. I find one misses what are usually termed, I
believe, "home comforts." The work to-day is to be confined to sections
and the training of the N.C.O.'s. This new drill reads simple enough in
the book, but the men don't seem to catch on to it as quickly as they
should; but really everything has so changed of late years that one
hardly likes to criticize. Spoke to the Adjutant about it; he says
they're doing quite as well as he expected. Very irritating order from
headquarters to the effect that as we are a manoeuvres camp, officers
will not dine in mess dress. A most senseless order; if they allow us
mess tents and board floors, and things of that sort, why on earth can't
they allow us to dine as gentlemen?

[Illustration: Reserves.]

       *     *     *     *     *

_Tuesday._--Weather improving, am happy to say. To-day's training, I
believe, is to be left in the hands of the company commanders; field
officers to exercise general supervision. On the whole, not bad,
although I doubt if they will be able to carry out my commands as
intelligently as I could wish without a tremendous amount of
explanation. I must impress upon them the importance of grasping the
idea of the commands, at the same time acting on their own initiative,
otherwise we shall have endless confusion.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Wednesday._--Something about living in the open that has a very
stimulating effect upon one. Made quite an excellent breakfast. The
Adjutant gave a most interesting lecture on outpost work before we
started; he mentioned several points that I don't mind confessing had
slipped my memory. I feel sure, with a little careful instruction, the
efficiency of the Volunteer Force would be enormously increased. Must
refer to it in the House on earliest opportunity. Did an attack with the
Brigade this afternoon; very disappointing. Up to certain stage
everything went well, but, as attack developed, got in some way mixed up
with the Blankshires, who were, undoubtedly, far out of their proper
line. Had slight argument with their C.O. Dear old chap, of course, but
absolutely pig-headed. Would not see my point. G.O.C.'s remarks rather
uncalled for, under the circumstances. Had to speak to several of the
company officers about letting their men get out of hand. The various
Adjutants seem to regard the matter with an amount of levity which I
don't altogether approve of. Mess very uproarious to-night; most
unnecessarily so in my opinion. Heard afterwards one of the subalterns
had given a lecture on "Tactics, as he understood them."

       *     *     *     *     *

_Thursday._--Inspection to-day. Passed off fairly satisfactorily; faults
found of course, but that's inevitable. A weary, worrying business.
Every one seems out of temper. Thank goodness, that's over for a year.

_Friday._--Every prospect of a hot day of course, on the one occasion
that we should rejoice in a cloudy sky. Hope there will be no trouble
with the water-cart. Got the Battalion away early, so could give the men
a rest before commencing operations.

Don't quite know what we're intended to be doing or where we're going.
Somewhat awkward, as I haven't been able to tell Williams where to meet
me with spare horse and a sandwich. Rather a joke (or the reverse) if I
had to patronize the water-cart!

Did exceedingly well. Complimented on the way I handled the Battalion in
awkward position. Very trying march back, but men stuck to it well. Will
back a country Battalion against a town one any time for a stiff day's
work, although they may not be so smart. Ordered extra ration of beer,
or its equivalent, to be issued to each man. Capital camp fire at night,
and some very good choruses. Great pity that just as we have got into
our stride, so to speak, we have to break up. Nothing like camp for the
men. Wish we could have more of it. Must bring up the question of
extended camps in the House.

[Illustration: A Camp Fire.]

       *     *     *     *     *

_Saturday._--Brought Battalion home. Never knew the men march better,
and every man looks as hard as nails. The girls say I look years
younger. Quite sorry to get back.

[Illustration]




  [Illustration: A Conundrum.

  _1st Umpire:_ "I say, Jimmy, which would you consider the most sporting
  thing to do--award both sides the palm of victory, or put 'em both out
  of action?"]




  [Illustration]

No. 2.

Capt. and Adjt. "JERRY" BENSON.


_Saturday._--I don't think I ever felt less inclined to get up in my
life. It is simply dreadful to contemplate the fact that for the next
week there won't be a moment's peace for me after 5 A.M. And something
horrible is sure to happen--either the Sergeant Major will go sick, or
the Colonel's wine will be corked, or I shall be asked to explain
things.

The Station Master seems unduly flurried for one of his years--says we
shall block the whole line if we don't get away soon. Had no idea the
railway system of the country was so easily upset. What is the matter
with the youth Thompson? Oh, he is in charge of the baggage for the time
being. It seems to excite him very much. Fortunately, baggage has a nice
little way of turning up in the long run, somehow. I wish they wouldn't
ask me what sort of work we shall do in camp; they must think I'm a sort
of military encyclopædia. Frightful scene detraining, Volunteers always
remind me of flustered hens on these occasions.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Sunday._--"Oh those dreadful bugles!" Usual church parade. The Colonel
is certain to forget his purse, so I'll take a sovereign for him. His
expression when he sees I've nothing less, will be touching. As a
spectacle, effect somewhat marred by the presence of a cyclist in
violent tweeds.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Monday._--Really a very amusing day. The struggles of the various
Company officers simply fascinating to watch, they have so many ways of
doing the same thing. I have never been able to fathom the mind of the
Volunteer N.C.O., but I should think he conceives his duty consists of
remaining eternally in rear of his men. I asked one what he thought he
was placed in charge of a section for, and he answered very truthfully
that he didn't know. I think I must get him sent out in charge of a
patrol when the Brigadier is about, he will be so pleased. Someone asked
me what I thought of the men's drill. I said it was very interesting,
and that I'd seen regulars do it quite as badly.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Tuesday._--Had a most elaborate Brigade drill, which I believe we are
not supposed to do, but it afforded me great joy. Everyone else seemed
to loathe it. The Colonel got rather worried, which was a nuisance, as I
had to keep at his elbow to put him right. I don't think any one really
knows what to do, but if you only take long enough about any movement,
you generally get a fresh command before you've got absolutely wrong. By
some miracle we didn't get quite in a muddle, which was a pity, as the
Brigadier would have given everybody the most awful "dirt." Felt quite
sorry when it was over. The Colonel uttered a heart-felt "Thank God!"

       *     *     *     *     *

_Wednesday._--A most amusing little field day. I think we did everything
we should not have done. Not a soul paid the faintest attention to
cover, and when we got into the quite open country everyone took the
opportunity to reform the lines. I pulled up a Subaltern who was doing
it in the most barefaced manner; he was very cheerful about it, said it
would save no end of confusion, and it was much easier to do "out here"
than when you were "bottled up in a bally wood!" I should rather like to
know what the men think of field days. The issue of blank ammunition
usually keeps them quite cheerful for the first half-hour; then, if they
happen to be in reserve they get very sulky and think they're being
"done in the eye," and when they eventually get into the firing line,
they loose off every round they have as fast as possible, and from that
moment take no further interest in the proceedings.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Thursday._--Annual Inspection to-day. Took every precaution, carefully
coached two companies in piquet duties, and put the rest in reserve.
Told the Captains if they had any old soldiers in the ranks to put them
in the responsible positions. Thank goodness the Chief invariably asks
the same questions, so hadn't to bother about other things. It would be
too dreadful if he started dodging us. I wish officers would _not_ say
they've received no instructions about all sorts of things. It may be
perfectly true, but you can't get them to see that they ought to say
anything but that. Had rather a fright when I heard the G.O.C. was
paying a surprise visit to the outposts, but something kept him off us.
The Sergeant Major said we should get an awful wigging over the camp, as
it wasn't half cleaned up, so had to get the Colonel to keep lunch going
as long as possible. Men turned out for inspection better than I
expected, but one wretched youth in No. 1 Company got his bayonet
jammed. Thought we were in for it, but luckily his struggles were so
pathetic that the Chief had to laugh, and forgot to make any nasty
remarks until he'd almost finished the inspection. We might train a
humorously-minded boy to do something of the sort every time.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Friday._--Usual wind-up field day. Did "pooja" to everything I could
think of, in the hope of being placed in reserve, but it didn't come
off. Had a positively dreadful time. Our portion of the firing line
seemed to fascinate the G.O.C., nothing would make him go away. Gave us
frightful "dirt" because the men insisted on standing up to see the
Commander-in-Chief and Staff go by, when they were supposed to be under
cover and lying down. One of the Staff got off rather smart thing--said
the Volunteers combined the minimum of expense with the maximum of
inefficiency.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Saturday._--Broke camp. I don't know which is worse, getting to camp or
coming away from it. It doesn't matter what arrangements you make, it
always results in hopeless confusion, and everybody goes about cursing
somebody or something. I shall keep out of the way as much as possible,
and I shall go on leave directly we get back.

  [Illustration: The Hired "Charger" is not a Thing of Beauty!]




  [Illustration: Studies.

  _Serious Major:_ "You ought to look in to-night, youngster, we shall be
  having a 'Kriegspiel' on."

  _Frivolous Sub.:_ "What's that, Sir?"

  _Major:_ "Don't you know? Why it's the War Game."

  _Sub.:_ "Never heard of it! Can you make any money at it?"]




  [Illustration: Ambushed!

  _Extract from Officer's Diary._--"Had lunch, practically on an
  unsuspected wasp's nest, and had to clear out, each man collaring
  whatever he could lay hands on. The Colonel was the last to quit the
  field of battle."]




  [Illustration: Field-Day Reflections.

  _Field Officer_ (_a little out of touch for the time being_): "I wish to
  goodness our corps had stuck to their scarlet instead of goin' into this
  infernal khaki; you used to be able to spot 'em at any distance, but now
  I'm hanged if I can tell _where_ they are!"]




  [Illustration: Tactics.

  _Slim Subaltern:_ "Not out of action? I should jolly well think you
  were, though! Why I've been simply pumping lead into you for the last
  ten minutes!"

  _Captain of Opposing Force:_ "That's all very fine, but it all depends
  on the range you were firing at."

  _Slim Subaltern:_ "Don't you worry about that, cocky; I had one section
  sightin' at eight hundred, another at nine, 'nother at one thou, an'
  t'other at 'leven hundred!"]




  [Illustration: Field-Day Tragedies.

  "Ullo, Dicky! Where's your Company? Lost?"

  "No, not lost, but gone before!"]




  [Illustration]

No. 3.

2nd Lieut. FITZGERALD LAWLESS.


_Saturday._--Utter rot limiting a fellow's baggage; I've simply chucked
it. If there was any need, I could live in one shirt just as well as the
next man, but I expect the Sergeant Major will think it his duty to
point out that two kit bags, a hold-all, plus the regulation tin box, is
almost up to field officer form, but I can't do it with less. I'm sure
the amount of stuff the sergeants' mess take with 'em is simply
appalling.

Trust our mess president will provide for our carnal appetites by the
way, but shall take the precaution of laying in a small stock on my own.

Had huge jest with young Simpkins in the train. Rotted him about his new
Sam Browne equipment; told him it wasn't on right, so we had it off him,
and regularly trussed him up in it; he got awfully wrathy, so we sat him
in a corner while Jackson read "Hints for Young Officers" to him.

Found my tent pitched close to the Colonel's; rather a good egg, as they
won't be able to try any larks on this time. That young ass Blenkinsop,
who was baggage officer, has lost one of my kit bags, and pretty well
smashed up the other things. Had the cheek to say it was lucky the only
really efficient Sub. in the Battalion in charge, or the baggage would
never have got here. Gathered from the tone of his remarks that he'd had
a pretty healthy time of it.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Sunday._--Seems quite good to hear the bugles going once more. Church
parade. Infernal nuisance having to wear busbies--always feel like a
bally Hungarian bandsman. As usual, forgot about the collection, so had
to apply to Watney, who, being a parson's son, is up to these moves;
result--put in half-a-crown. Fancy Watney regards it as a little private
field day, as he invariably has half-crowns and nothing else. Told me
afterwards he'd lent five.

Spent most of this afternoon trying to instil some measure of tidiness
into my servant.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Monday._--On duty. Inspected the grub first thing. Awfully good chap
our Quartermaster; tried to show me how to spot bully beef. 'Pon my soul
I think the real work of a Battalion is done off the scenes, as it were.
How the deuce they manage to feed nine hundred beggars without a regular
fuss, beats me.

No complaints about the breakfast. My own a bit off, as I was late.

Preliminary training and drills. Been trying to hammer a little
knowledge into our N.C.O.'s. The non-commissioned man may be the
backbone of the army, but I'll be hanged if he is of the Volunteers.
Went round lines at dinner. Two or three complaints; either too much fat
or too little gravy. Got rather good wheeze for these occasions; nearly
always come from an untidy lot, so invariably say I never take
complaints from a dirty tent; makes 'em very sick. Turned out the
guards; good thing in principle, generally a bally farce in practice.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Tuesday._--Had to dig young Brown out of his tent about 2 A.M.; his man
hadn't slacked off the tent ropes, and as there was rather a heavy dew,
the whole show collapsed. Fancy B. thought the camp had been rushed, as
we discovered him clutching his sword. His lamp had been knocked over,
and he was soaked in paraffin, and smelt vilely. Rotted B. about it all
day.

Fooled about in rear of my half company most of the time, as the Captain
was enjoying himself bossing everything; he might just as well have
given me a separate job to do. Got rather hauled over the coals for not
seeing that the men laid out their bedding properly. Asked the Sergeant
Major what the regulation way was. Wish he wouldn't _always_ preface his
information with "I should have thought, Sir, that that was one of the
_first_ things an officer should know."

Rather a lark after mess; got young B. down and christened him "Violet
de Parme," while Jackson played "Taint all lavender." Suspected B. of
harbouring thoughts of revenge, so collared a syphon of soda, and after
putting out my light crawled outside and waited for him. Just as he
started letting the tent down, sallied forth and let fly the soda at
him. Stirred up the Colonel, so had to lie awfully doggo.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Wednesday._--Colonel rather grumpy about being disturbed. Did a futile
Brigade attack to-day. Got told off as escort to some machine guns.
Asked the Johnnie in command of 'em what he was going to do. Said he
didn't know, but thought they wanted him to keep out of the way, and
interrupt the attack as little as possible. M.G.'s usually looked on as
a nuisance, I fancy. I suggested it would be rather sporting if we
worked out well to a flank, and then imagined ourselves ambushed, and
bolted back on the main body; give 'em awfully great opportunity of
showing what they could do in an emergency, but he wouldn't rise to it.
Simply a lovely chance lost of rotting up the show. Think I shall put in
for the gun section next year.

[Illustration: The Gun Team.]

Went over to the Wildshires in the evening. Awfully sporting lot. Found
'em having chariot races in armchairs with obstacles. Being a guest, was
asked to be passenger; nothing broken but the chair. Musical lot, too.
Have great formula when they want a song from anyone, "Will you come to
the piano, or will you be fetched?" They generally come. Rather late
before I got back. Never knew a camp with so many confounded tent ropes.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Thursday._--Annual inspection. Filthy day. Inspected every ten minutes,
with slight interval for showers. Was hurried off to a piquet. Rushed
out patrols and sentries somewhere. Got told to alter 'em. If you wanted
to know anything you were told to ask some one else. Always the same
game. Hardly a soul knows what they're supposed to be doing. You're not
certain yourself, and if you are, you haven't time to tell your men. So
everyone produces little red books, and studies "What to do and How to
do it," by "One who thinks he knows." No wonder the regulars jibe at us;
it's astonishing we're as good as we are. Everybody a bit off to-day.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Friday._--Paraded half an hour earlier, as we had about seven miles to
march to the rendezvous. Tried to stop my fellows from emptying their
water-bottles at the first halt. It would do 'em good if the water-cart
got lost for once, and they had to make the contents of their bottles
last them the day.

Find we're to act as rearguard to something. Got told off to occupy a
bit of a wood right away on the flank. Thank goodness they haven't told
me what to do or how long to hold on, or anything, so I shall get out of
touch as soon as I can and play off my own bat. Rather good little wood.
Men awfully keen on the job. Soon after we occupied position, spotted
party of the enemy coming through gap in the hills. Couldn't see them
very well on account of the haze, so waited till they got fairly near,
and then gave 'em a volley. They sent an orderly over to know what the
deuce I meant by firing on the ambulance. Felt rather an ass, but found
out afterwards every party they had passed had paid them the same
compliment. Soon after scout came in with news of enemy. I wanted to
ambush 'em, but some silly fool fired without orders, so it became a
regular attack. Put three companies out of action before we retired, but
cut it rather too fine, and a few of my chaps got collared. Found the
rest of the rearguard had cleared before. Some of 'em mistook us for the
bally foe, and blazed into us like old boots. Rotted 'em no end when we
got up to them. Everything got in the most awful muddle after a bit; no
one knew who was which. After the "Cease fire" sounded came across a lot
of chaps firing like mad at anybody who came near. Told 'em the "Cease
fire" had gone. "'Cease fire' be damned!" said one of them. "We ain't
had a look in till now!"

Rather rough time getting back to camp. Thought at one time half my lot
were going to fall out, so went for 'em like anything. Called 'em a
"bally lot of school-girls out for a Sunday-school treat," which upset
them somewhat, so they bucked up and not one caved in, although we were
all pretty well "baked."

Awfully festive night. The Wildshires had a camp fire, nearly all the
Brigade turned out. Any amount of choruses. Had fearful "rag"
afterwards. Scotson got hold of a wheelbarrow, formed a machine-gun
detachment, and rushed the Southshires' lines. Awfully "pi" lot, and got
very sick. Whenever they started to object charged 'em with the "Maxim,"
and drove 'em to earth. When I got back found my tent struck and a note
on it begging me not to disturb the Colonel when pitching it. Got out my
blankets, rolled up in them, and slept outside.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Saturday._--Find I'm stuck in charge of the baggage. Must see if I can
manage it without the usual row. Rather nice fellow is the A.S.C. in
charge of transport. Told him we'd got it all ready, and he needn't
worry. Shall just have time for my fellows to get breakfast and then
slip into it. Everything seems all serene, so I'll get a bite myself.

Oh, my Aunt Maria! I wish if they give a fellow a job to do they'd leave
him to do it. Found everybody pitching the stuff up into the wagons
anyhow. How ever it got sorted out, goodness knows. Had rather a row
with the A.S.C. chap; told him he was muddling everything up. Seemed to
think a Volunteer can't possibly know anything, but considering half my
men come from the railway, I'll back them against all comers for loading
a truck. Started at last, about half an hour late. More trouble at the
station; only two trucks there instead of the five indented for. My
stock of ornamental profanity barely sufficient for the occasion.
Finally managed somehow. Loaded up passenger coaches, horse boxes,
anything; but men awfully sulky. Thought they were going to curse the
Major when he wanted to know why everything wasn't done. Got rotted by
young Blenkinsop for mucking the show up. Major awfully good chap on
these occasions; told me it's absolutely unavoidable when we have to
manage to get a day's work done in about three hours. Told ripping good
jest against himself when _he_ was on baggage duty years ago. Must try
it again next year to see if I can do it differently. Only one or two
things gone wrong after all, by some miracle.

Home again. Feel rather tired. Jolly good camp, though. Hope next year's
will be as good.

  [Illustration: Off Duty.]




  [Illustration: Philosophies.

  "Chargin'," said the Junior Subaltern, "is all bally rot; and when we
  carried a beastly sword it was positively dangerous. You blew your
  whistle, bolted out in front of your men, howled 'Char-r-r-ge!' shoved
  your foot in a hole, or got the scabbard between your legs an' came a
  regular mucker, and then some idiot behind either jumped on you or
  tripped over you, an' most likely prodded you with his bally bayonet."]




  [Illustration: M.G.

  _Extract from Diary._--"We got our Maxim into a capital position on the
  flank, but before we could fire a shot we were put out of action for
  some time."]




  [Illustration: More Army Reforms.

  _Our only Sub.:_ "Awful tommy rot big Battalions, don't you know; ever
  so much jollier with just the mess an' the band."]




  [Illustration: On Guard.

  _Officer of the day_ (_who believes in making sure that every man knows
  his work_): "Ah? What are you?" (_No answer._)

  "Er! What are your orders?" (_No answer._)

  "What the dooce are you doing here?"

  _Recruit_ (_on sentry go for the first time_): "Please, zur, I bz
  waitin' for they to tell I to come to tay!"]




  [Illustration: A Misunderstanding.

  _Colonel_ (_to recruit who has forgotten to salute him_): "What Company
  do you belong to?"

  _Recruit_ (_mindful of his civil occupation_): "Th--Th--The Gas Company,
  please, Sir!"]




  [Illustration]

No. 4.

Pte. TIMOTHY SIMMONS.


_Saturday._--'Ad a bit of a row with the old man afore starting; 'e
wants me to give mother 'arf my camp pay, same as if it were wages. Told
'im I would if I could, so I expect there'll be more rows when we gets
back. Said good-bye to Mary, an' told her if I 'eard of any goings on
with Bill Jenkins, as could go to camp if 'e wanted to right enough, I'd
spoil 'is face for 'im. She said I ought to be walkin' 'er out instead
o' wastin' my time playin' at soldiers, an' that Bill's a very sensible
chap. I ses as 'e's a waster an' a perfect bloomin' idjet at drill,
always a throwin' us out. Jawin' with 'er made me a bit late for parade,
but our leftenant didn't seem to mind for a wonder. Usually 'is temper's
awful if things don't go as he likes. He cocked 'is bloomin' eye-glass
at me, tho', in a way as made me think 'e was going to start cussin'.
Twasn't bad with all the village looking on, an' we marched off in
style.

Got told off to the baggage guard at the station. Blessed if I don't
think it was for being late for p'rade. Warn't sorry when the train
started, as one of the chaps 'ad got hold of four bottles of beer as was
all right. Just before the train stops our Serjint, 'e ses, "Look after
our own company's baggage, an' never mind what anybody ses." But we
'adn't more than about started when a off'cer on a horse comes along an'
wants to know who's in charge an' where is 'e. I tells 'im, an' then he
ses we can't be all day over the job, an' we're to put all this lot into
that truck. We ses we was told to put it in t'other. "Put it where _I_
tell you," 'e ses. Bimeby along comes our off'cer, an' just takes one
look at us, an' then started fairly in. As our Corp'ril said afterwards,
it were a treat. I'd 'ave given the price of a pint to 'ave been able to
sit still an' listen to 'im, an' yet to look at 'im in the ordinary way
you'd think he couldn't get further than "Dash it all!" Then up comes
the off'cer on the 'orse. "Are you in charge of this guard?" ses 'e.
"Yes," ses our off'cer. "Well, you'll never get away at this rate, an'
there's three more Battalions to detrain after you, an' I must 'ave
those trucks back from the camp by six o'clock." "Very good; they will
be here," ses our man. "Not at this rate," ses t'other. "My dear
fellow," ses our off'cer, "my men aint regulars, but they can manage it
all right in their own way if you'll leave 'em alone; but you're simply
muddlin' us up now." "Can't help that," ses t'other. "I'm only
responsible for the trucks, and they must be got away at once." "I'm
responsible for the baggage," ses our man. "Either leave the job to me
or take the whole thing over." "Oh, do as you like. I don't care a
damn," ses the one on the 'orse. "No more do I," ses our off'cer. So we
gets it together somehow an' marches off, the bloomin' traction-engine
a-goin' about five miles an 'our an' we tryin' to keep up, all of us
cussin' at everything. Don't catch me on a baggage guard again in a
'urry.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Sunday._--Bit tired to-day. Couldn't get much sleep las' night; some of
the chaps 'adn't been to camp afore, an' wouldn't shake down quiet. Kep'
growlin' at everything. Off'cer comes round wantin' to know what the
noise were about. I tells 'im as George Hitchins 'udn't shut up, an' let
us get to sleep. "'It 'im on the 'ed with a boot," ses the off'cer, an'
I 'ad a bloomin' good mind to. Church p'rade in the mornin'. Never 'eard
a blessed word till we got to the hymns. Dinner pretty right, but could
'ave done with more of it. Beer at the canteen not 'arf as good as we
gets at the old "King's Arms." Went out with some of our chaps in the
afternoon an' 'ad a sleep in a wood. Not 'arf a bad day. If t'were goin'
to be all same as this, I wouldn't mind.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Monday._--Jack Houghton, as was Tent Orderly to-day, goes an' trips
over one of the tent ropes when he were bringing the coffee, an' spilt
most of it. Tried to get some more, but couldn't, so docked 'im of 'is
share; even then we was precious short. Section drill all the morning.
Never saw the off'cers so savage--nothing would please them; they're
fairly easy all the year, but they makes up for it in camp. Not but what
some of the chaps want it--lots of 'em goes on enough to break a
feller's 'eart, an' then we all gets the blame.

That there Houghton got hold of the wrong kettle at dinner an' come back
with No. 5's grub, which, as they're only seven in their tent to our
eight, warn't good enough. Complained to the off'cer as come round. 'E
said if we couldn't look after ourselves better than that, we must take
the consequences. That's all very fine, but it don't feed us. Made
Houghton stand 'arf a gallon to the tent. 'E ses camp's a bloomin'
swindle. If there's one thing I 'ates it is cleaning up the camp; the
other companies chucks their rubbish into our lines, but t'aint no use
to say so, you only gets shut up.

[Illustration: On the Range.]

Got jawed at for a bit o' dirt in my rifle as you couldn't see. "Clean
it again," ses our Leftenant. "I've cleaned the thing forty times," I
ses. "Forty-one's your lucky number," 'e ses; "try again." Went for a
stroll in the evenin', but these 'ere camps is too far away from
anything to please me.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Tuesday._--My day as Tent Orderly. I never see such a lot of chaps to
grumble as our tent. Fust of all the bread warn't right, then I 'adn't
got enough coffee, an' the bacon was done too much--why 'adn't I kicked
up a row? "Look 'ere," I ses, "you bloomin' well take wot you gets, an'
if you aint satisfied you complain to the off'cer of the day; _'e_ won't
stand much of yer lip. I know my work," I ses, "an' I done it."

Had to peel a reg'lar pile of taters, twice as many as they ought to
want. "There," I ses to our company cook, "'ow's that?" "Why, you've bin
an' wasted nigh on 'arf of 'em," 'e ses. "An' then yer tent will be
hollerin' out as I cheats 'em. _I_ know 'em," 'e ses. An' sure enough
they did, only it were the gravy as they didn't like this time. I shall
be bloomin' glad when I'm a Sergint, an' 'as a mess to ourselves. 'Ad
narrow shave of being late for p'rade. You aint got no time to spare
when you're Orderly.

Thought nothing would satisfy our off'cers to-day. We was trying all
sorts of things like they does 'em at the war, an' we was fairly sick of
it, but the Colonel 'e rides by an' sings out as we was the best company
'e'd seen that morning, so that was all right, an' we didn't mind being
shoved about.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Wednesday._--We was practised in advanced guard the first thing this
morning, all the companies working separate. After a bit, I'm blowed if
yer could tell what any of 'em was at, they was so mixed up. Afore we
starts, our Captain 'e explains to us what we was supposed to do; _'e_
may 'ave understood what 'e was drivin' at, but I'm blest if any of us
did. 'Owever, after a bit I begins to see what we was meant to be doin',
an' bimeby the Captain 'e tells me to take two men as a patrol to
examine a wood as was near by. D'rectly we was out of sight one of 'em
starts playin' the goat, till I gives 'im a shove in the back wi' the
butt just to remind 'im as I was in command. The Major come along jist
then an' asks me what we was? I tells 'im as we were a patrol, an' 'e
tells me the proper way to do it, an' what to report to the Captain.

After breakfast we was out again doin' outposts. Wish they wouldn't 'ave
so much make believe about it. Supposin' now they puts yer in a group as
sentries. "The henemy," they ses, "is somewhere over there, an' you've
to watch that bit o' country in front of you; the countersign's
'Bunkum,' an' you've to keep under cover." Well, there aint no henemy,
an' nothin' aint goin' to 'appen, an' yer wouldn't know wot to do if it
did, so you just lies down an' smokes till the "assembly" goes, an' then
you comes back. It may teach officers something, but it don't teach us
much.

As we was out for the day only 'ad a sort o' bread an' water picnic
instead of dinner, which we 'as when we gets back to camp. We was put
through what they calls an attack drill after, but I didn't think much
of it; started off with about twenty yards between you an' the next man,
an' then as we advanced, they comes crowdin' up from be'ind till the
firin' line were like a bloomin' football scrimmage, with about four
different Battalions all atop o' one another, an' loosin' off right an'
left whether they was in front or be'ind. "'Ere," I ses to Ted
Parminter, "this aint no place for us, it's too bloomin' dangerous. I'm
going to be a casualty." An' we drops be'ind. "Wot bally rot!" I 'eard
one off'cer say, an' I quite agreed with 'im.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Thursday._--Everyone 'ad to clean the bloomin' camp twice over to-day,
as we was to be inspected. I niver seen such a place for getting dirty;
you brushes yerself down an' blacks yer boots an' polishes up yer rifle,
an' in ten minutes you are that covered in dust as you look as if you
'adn't washed for a week.

Got sent out with a patrol again. Saw a General ridin' along our way, so
we got be'ind an 'edge till 'e'd gone by. Just after we got back to the
picket another General comes along an' asks all sorts of questions, an'
didn't seem to think much of the answers 'e got. We was all 'oping it
were over for the day, when along comes a whole lot o' Generals all
together, and one of 'em calls out to us to fall in. We gets up an'
begins dusting ourselves down a bit, when 'e yells at us for not being
in our places at once, an' goes for us 'ot an' strong; then 'e starts
asking questions as made me shiver. All of a sudden 'e ses: "Who was in
charge of the last patrol as went out?" The Captain calls me up, and the
General ses, "Where did you go?" I tells 'im I went as far as the wood.
"See anything of the enemy?" 'e ses. "There weren't none there," I ses.
"How do you know?" ses 'e; "you ar'n't allowed to enter the woods about
here." "Well, Sir," I ses, "we didn't go in, but there's only two places
where anybody could get in without doing damage, and there weren't no
footmarks there." "What forage can I get down there?" 'e ses. "There's
about three ton o' bad 'ay, Sir, at one of the cottages, but it aint
worth 'aulin'," I ses, an' 'e tells me to fall back in the ranks, which
I was precious glad to do. Our Captain said, when they was gone, as 'ow
I'd answered very well, an' 'ow I ought to go for a stripe. I said as I
should like to.

Paraded in the afternoon for the reg'lar inspection; was kept out in the
burnin' sun standing still for about two hours while another General
walked round an' looked at our buttons an' boots, an' found fault with
every blessed thing. They seems to think yer kit is made to look at, not
to use. As I ses to Ted in the canteen after, "We comes to camp for
trainin', an' this 'ere's nothing but wastin' time, as could be done at
'ome anywhere."

       *     *     *     *     *

_Friday._--Revelly 'arf 'our earlier this morning, as we 'ad a longish
march to do. Precious 'ot it were, too, an' we were main glad to get a
rest before beginning operations. Don't know what we was supposed to be
doin', but we got posted on the side of an 'ill where we could 'ave seen
everything as was goin' on, but d'rectly you gets up to 'ave a look some
one starts bellerin', "Lie down there!" till we all got the bloomin'
'ump. After a bit they takes us back the way we come and we lay down
again, then they advances us up the 'ill again; then they shifts us
about all over the shop, backerds an' forrards, till we didn't know
where we was. At last a off'cer comes galloping over to our Colonel and
they seemed to be 'avin' a few words, and we advances an' 'alts,
advances an' 'alts, for about a hour an' a 'arf, an' then just as we was
getting up to the firing line an' thinkin' this was a bit of all right
at last, the bugles go, "Cease fire." "Taint fair," ses Dick Jennings;
"let's shoot the bloomin' humpire." Getting back to camp were a bit
thick, 'ow we did it without fallin' out I don't know. No one who aint
done it theirselves knows wot marchin' ten mile in fours on a road two
inches deep in dust is like; yer rifle weighs about a ton, an' yer
water's gone at the first 'alt. The bloomin' band as ought to 'ave met
us an' played us 'ome, went an' lost itself, an' never showed up till we
was almost back to camp. Colonel 'e's give out as every man is to 'ave a
hextra pint issued to 'im. I 'ad three more on my own; 'ad a bit of a
sing-song in the evenin', but we was too tired to do much.

       *     *     *     *     *

_Saturday._--Regular scrimmage striking tents an' getting blankets an'
baggage together, but got it done some'ow--a regular nigger drivin' sort
of job.

Felt quite sorry when we fell in on p'rade for the last time. Camp's
stiffish work an' everybody grumbles, but it aint bad fun on the whole;
an' after all a chap as 'as been to camp is worth half-a-dozen as
'asn't, you learns things there that you can't learn nohow else, no
matter 'ow clever you are.

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration: Outposts.

  Both the sentry and the group indulge in a little "Nap."]




[Illustration: BLANK CARTRIDGES]

What the service would be without the Junior Subaltern the Junior
Subaltern cannot imagine.

       *     *     *     *     *

Do not anathematize the genius who formulates the Regulations. He is
quite right, if you could but understand him.

       *     *     *     *     *

Gun practice with obsolete weapons is instructive. One cannot know too
much of the history of one's country.

       *     *     *     *     *

A sealed pattern at the War Office is something different from the kit
you have just purchased.




  [Illustration: At Last!

  Private Jones having contrived to sit upon his bayonet, the various
  ambulances and bearer sections get a look in.]

The expenses of the officer's dress should be reduced whenever possible.
Abolish ten shillings worth of lace, and substitute three buttons at
three-and-sixpence apiece. There is only a slight difference, but every
little helps.

[Illustration]

Rifles should be cleaned very carefully: one man should hold the rifle,
and the other should manipulate the "pull-through."

[Illustration]

The difference between field service kit and parade dress is very
marked. You wear out the one and grow out of the other.




  [Illustration: Off Duty.

  That enthusiastic Volunteer, Jack Rackett, holds that, while in camp,
  you should consider yourself a soldier for the time being; but, he says,
  Tommy has a "deuced good time, don't you know!"]




  [Illustration: Trouble in the Band.

  _Bugler:_ "'Ere, if you go on increasin' at this rate, Fatty, you'll
  'ave to send in your resignation. You won't be able to reach the middle
  o' the drum soon!"]

You may be traffic manager of a railway, but you cannot know as much
about a baggage train as a Second Lieutenant in the Army Service Corps
who has been at it for a week.

       *     *     *     *     *

  Now this is the creed of the Subaltern.--
      The Subaltern knows everything and does everything.
      The Captain knows (?) everything and does nothing.
      The Major knows nothing and does nothing.

       *     *     *     *     *

[Illustration]

There is such a thing as too much enthusiasm, and when, after joining
the Signalling section, Edwin's fond epistles took the above form,
Angelina decided that it was time to break off the engagement.

       *     *     *     *     *

If you want to know anything always ask the Adjutant; recollect that he
has nothing to do but to attend to _you_.

       *     *     *     *     *

No water-cart is perfect. You may abuse it without incurring rebuke.

       *     *     *     *     *

When in doubt say you have received no instructions.

       *     *     *     *     *

Many rules apply equally well in civil and military life. If you are in
a responsible position, never do anything till you are absolutely
pushed.

Presenting arms never killed the enemy, neither has physical drill, but
each helps to make a soldier.

       *     *     *     *     *

It is curious how an indifferent shot always gets a badly sighted rifle
issued to him.

       *     *     *     *     *

"Intelligence in the obeyin' of commands," said "Tiny," "is of the
utmost importance. If you are with an off'cer as knows 'is work you may
close yer eyes and rest in peace, an' just do as you're told without
worryin'. But they differ. There's that little devil with the eyeglass
now, if 'e's takin' you an' you see me convenient to 'is elbow you can
be easy in your minds an' jump to the word, but if, by misfortune, 'e's
out there alone, keep yer wits about yer an' step off slow, for 'As you
were' an' 'Mark time' is favourite commands with 'im.'"

       *     *     *     *     *

"Discipline is a good word; it fills the mouth and makes the chest swell
with the sound, but it's easier to spell than to explain," said "Tiny."
"I have not my patent-instalment-plan Dictionary with me, but 'tis in
the nature of obedience, only more so. Any fool can do as 'e's told, but
the disciplined man will do it even when 'e thinks it's wrong--not, I
want ye to understand, just because it's an order, but because 'e ses to
'imself: this is for a reason as I don't know on. F'rinstance, when the
father told the boy to slip into the orchard an' shin up a tree an'
collar all the apples 'e could, that boy didn't hesitate, but started
'tooty sweet,' as the French say. Now, thinks 'e as 'e goes along,
'Wot's the little game? The apples is rotten, the dawg's about, an' the
farmer 'll catch me for sure. It can't be for the sake of getting me a
lammin', cos,' says he, 'the ole man likes doin' that 'isself. I don't
'arf like the looks of it,' 'e says, 'but I'll take me precautions:'
with that he shoves a bone in 'is pocket to amuse the tripe hound if he
gets too pressing, an' takes a stone or two for the farmer, an' by the
end of the campaign comes back to find that the enemy's attention
'aving been diverted to the orchard, the ole man 'as cleaned out the hen
roost, an' there's a hot supper an' general rejoicings."

  [Illustration: "All exercises should generally conclude with a
  conference, at which Officers and Non-commissioned Officers should be
  encouraged to explain any action they may have taken." _Vide_ Army
  Orders, 1901.]

  [Illustration]




  [Illustration]





       *     *     *     *     *




Transcriber's note:

The original hyphenation, spelling and grammar have been preserved.

Page 21, "Reglashuns" changed to "Reg'lashuns" [Ed. for consistency]
Page 99, 'anywhere.' changed to 'anywhere."'
Page 111, "isself" changed to "'isself"

